# Predictive-modeling
Response modeling is a common predictive modeling approach with various applications. This modeling technique has gained attention in marketing for predicting customers response to a marketing campaign. By targeting customers who would respond positively to the marketing campaign, the marketing return can be improved. However, response modeling fails to distinguish customers who would respond anyway even without the marketing campaign from customers who responded only because of the marketing campaign. Hence, uplift modeling is used to estimate the incremental effect of the campaign given to customers. The main goal of marketing campaigns is to target essential customers only thereby reducing marketing costs and improve the marketing ROI. Hence, in this thesis, a detailed analysis is carried out to identify which modeling technique is better for improving marketing ROI. 
     \newline
     \newline
     Adequate literature is not available for comparison of uplift models and response models, especially for usage in the marketing field. Therefore, the objective of this thesis is to compare response models and uplift models to analyze which model is successful in identifying customers, who have a higher probability to respond only because of the treatment (marketing campaign). For this analysis, the Bank Marketing dataset is used. The performance comparison of response and uplift modeling is carried out using Qini metrics. Uplift models are successful in capturing the customers (persuadables) who have a high probability to respond only due to the marketing campaign. The Qini- AUC score of response models is better than uplift models. However, response models failed to capture target customers that will increase the marketing ROI. This thesis work indicates that uplift modeling is better than response modeling to improve marketing ROI.
